[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's take a look
at some practical usefulness for
this closure mechanism and
how we use this.
You remember I talked about iffy being
one of the most common patterns,
if it's not the first most,
it's the second most.
And what we're about to see
here is the most common,
and it's what we call
the classic module pattern.
Articulated mostly by Doug Crockford and
others in the early 2000s.
The classic module pattern has
two characteristics to it,
as implemented in JavaScript code.
The first characteristic is
that there must be an outer
wrapping function that gets it executed.
It does not have to be an IIFE, but
it does have to be an outer
function that gets executed okay?
In this case it is an iffy,
we're gonna have a foo pointing.
The second characteristic to the classic
module is that there must be one or
more functions that get returned
from that function call, so one or
more inner functions that have
a closure over the inner private scope.
So we can think about it like
this object I'm gonna return.
Foo is gonna end up pointing at this
object, all of this stuff that I
declare inside of here is like private
members inside of a module, and
this object is like my public API.
And I put one or more methods on that
API that have that special, privileged,
closer capability to access the internal
state, and that makes a module.
So there has to be, one, there has to
be an outer wrapping function call.
And two, there has to be at least one
inner function that gets returned out and
keeps a closure over the internal state.
>> Kyle Simpson: So if I have
hundreds of lines of internal functions
and variables and all that stuff,
all that stuff stays completely hidden,
exactly the way it would with an iffy.
It stays hidden, and we get to choose
what we return back on our public API.
It's the idea of encapsulation, the idea
of hiding private implementation details.
Comes from a principle of software design
called the principle of least privilege,
or also known as the principle
of least exposure.
Make everything private and
only expose that which needs to be public.
>> Speaker 2: So
the outer function is like a class,
and the inner functions are like a-
>> Kyle Simpson: Not like a class,
I hate it when people call it a class
It is a characteristic that
we use to make modules.
So if you really wanted to give it
something you could call it a module
factory okay.
It's not a class.
People like to think
these things are classes.
We'll get there, why it's not a class.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: If you just
returned a function instead of
an object with a bar function that
would still be a considered-
>> Kyle Simpson: Still be a module
probably and
that's exactly what Jay cleared up.
jQuery makes the dollar
sign as the public API and
it's just a function.
>> Speaker 4: There's a question about
what the two characteristics
of module patterns were that
somebody missed something.
>> Kyle Simpson: The two characteristics.
The first one,
there must be an outer enclosing function.
Second characteristic, from inside of that
function it must return at least one or
more inner functions,
references to inner functions that
have closure over the private
scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: All
right this is called
the classic module pattern.
As you can see, it's a really nice
easy way for us to organize our code.
You're about to get some
practice with this.
You better get familiar with the classic
module pattern because your exercise
calls for you to do exactly this.
Okay, there are variations on
the classic module pattern.
One of them is one that I kind of like to
do, it's kind of a stylistic variation.
Remember I said that that object that we
return back is kind of like a public API.
Rather than return back an anonymous
object, I like to call it publicAPI,
so I actually give it an internal
reference, that I give it a name.
The reason that I do that is
both functionally and stylistic.
Stylistically it's kind of like
when I talked about my iffy,
where I pass in the window and
I call it global.
If I have hundreds of lines of private
functions and then I see a bunch of
public API doc, then I know that
stuff is stuff on the public API.
So stylistically it helps me keep
track of public versus private.
But functionally,
if you keep a reference to this object,
you can actually modify
your API at run time.
You could add and remove method.
You can update property values.
If you don't keep a reference to
it like in the previous slide.
We have no reference to that object.
We have no way to update that
object after we've returned
it
>> Kyle Simpson: But
if you do keep it around and
you call it something like publicAPI,
we can now reference it, as I do here.
I can reference it, I can add to it,
I can remove from it.
Because both foo and
publicAPI will be references to
the same object.
>> Kyle Simpson: Does that make
sense?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
I called that the modified module pattern.
There's a lot of power to these
variations on the module pattern.
As a nice piece of homework to you.
And as I said, I suggested to you,
you should go home and
wrap your code in iffys.
The other option is to go home and
make modules out of your code.
But either way, it will very easily
with just a couple of lines of code
you can turn your code into
a much more organized thing.
All right, the modern module
pattern is kind of an exposition
of something that you're
probably already familiar with.
If you're using things like require,
the AMD pattern, any of those other ones.
Now I just made one up.
I'm gonna call mine define.
I'll get to the question in just a moment.
Any relationship that it bears to existing
loaders is entirely coincidental.
I call mine define, but
guess what it does?
It takes a name from my module, and
it takes a function that
returns back an object.
That should look awfully familiar,
cuz that's a lot like how require works.
And so what we see here is we see the same
characteristics of the module pattern,
the only thing you do not see is you
don't see the execution of that function
that takes that value and
assigns it to a name.
That's the part that
the library is doing for you.
But in all ways this is still exactly
the same thing as I showed in the previous
couple of slides,
it's still the module pattern.
So those require AMD and
all those other loaders,
it might feel like they're really like
special magical black boxes of goodness.
They're really not doing anything special.
They're just executing a function and
assigning the return value for
you at their core, okay?
So I could make one of these.
In fact in my book,
the Scope and Closures book,
I show you a little 30 line implementation
of a module manager kind of thing that
does exactly what I just suggested.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
finally, the future, or the ES6+ module
pattern, as an ES6+, we're getting,
I'm sorry, there was a question, yeah?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah on
the previous couple slides,
all the var foo and
the define for foo are using an anonymous
function, James L would like to know why
you're using an anonymous function?
>> Kyle Simpson: Cuz it saves space on
my slides.
Honest to God, that's the reason I do it.
It's too much space for me to put-
>> Speaker 2: In production code,
would you recommend a different practice?
>> Kyle Simpson: Should always use named
function expressions.
Every function you write has something
that you can name it, even if it's just
something generic like handler.
>> Speaker 2: Another one, from Oliver,
he was talking about Christian Hellman
evangelized the module pattern,
and if this is
basically what he was talking about?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah if you're talking
about the module pattern in JavaScript,
that's what this is.
>> Kyle Simpson: Absolutely.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's the most,
if it's not one, it's two most common
patterns in all of JavaScript.
If you're not aware of it, if you're not
using it in your code Go home tonight and
write, put module wrappers
around your code,
because it immediately creates more
organized and more sane code to maintain.
So, finally as of ES6, we're getting first
class support for modules where we're not
going to really have to syntactically
create the outer wrapping function thing.
We're gonna be able to do it In
a much cleaner way, it's file based.
So this is both a plus and a minus.
You're basically going to
treat the contents of a file
like if I have a file called foo.js
the contents of that file is sort
of conceptually going to be treated
like that exists inside of a function.
But we don't have to write the function,
it's going to have its own scope.
Just like it was inside
of an if inference.
And instead of returning things we
use this new keyword called export.
And you can call export one or one hundred
times or however many times you want.
Everything you export will get added
to the public API for that module.
So you just write your variables and
your functions the way you normally would
you don't worry about any wrapping stuff.
But, it's the way this final gets loaded
that's what's gonna treat it like a module
that's gonna give it that
special scoping behavior,
because the way we load it is to import.
And there are two keywords,
this is a little bit strange,
but there's two keywords for
importing modules as of ES6.
The import keyword allows
you to import one or
many members of the API
as first class thing.
So if I have on here a bar method,
if I say import bar from foo
it only pulls in the bar.
Not the whole module.
It just pulls in part of it.
If I want the whole module,
I use the module keyword; module foo from
foo gives me the whole thing
as a traditional object
reference.
>> Kyle Simpson: But
when a file gets loaded using this
mechanism, it will treat that,
the contents of that file
like they're a module.
So, this is syntax that's
supported as a ES6.
I will completely frank with you,
that this is one of two things
that are still in flux as of
the ES6 specification process.
So, it comes with the caveat that I've
seen some discussion that says this
line four syntax might
be rejected after all.
So, there's still a little
bit of flux here, but
it's one of the last few
things to get added,
finalized for this spec, yeah?
>> Speaker 3: If foo.js defined two
functions to be public,
like export function bar,
export function [CROSSTALK] whatever yeah.
Can you import just two
of them on the same line
import?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
yeah, you can do the commas.
There's a wild card so
you can import all of them yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, that's
our future module pattern, but you should
recognize that it's mostly the same thing.
It's just a syntactic sugar, it's
assuming the little function wrapper for
you, and
you're returning back inner functions.
Still has the same characteristics
as the module pattern.